# Licensing contributions to RHVoice

This is a request to present and future contributors from Olga
Yakovleva, the creator of RHVoice, developer of the core code and
primary maintainer of the RHVoice project.

Further to the announcement in
[#556](https://github.com/RHVoice/RHVoice/discussions/556) of my
desire to try an "Open Core" model, here I've set out a process for
how I would like to obtain additional permissions, where necessary, to
use your contributions.

I wish to ask for additional permissions for code or other content
which may become a part of a runtime application.

Contributed languages and voices are excluded from this request.
Depending on their licenses, I may need special permissions from the
copyright holders in order to continue to be able to legally provide
them in my runtime applications.

If you are contributing code or other content for which I need
additional permissions from you, depending on the nature of the
contributions and your preferences, two ways to grant me those
permissions are available:

## Licensing patches under a permissive license

If you have modified or added to existing code or other content, you
can give me the permissions I'm asking for by licensing your patch
under a permissive license.

In the description of your new pull request, or a comment to one of
your existing pull requests, include a statement such as the following:

> I license this contribution under the terms set out in the XXX license.

Where XXX can be one of the following SPDX identifiers:

* [MIT-0](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT-0.html)
* [0BSD](https://spdx.org/licenses/0BSD.html)
* [Unlicense](https://spdx.org/licenses/Unlicense.html)

## Signing the Contributor License Agreement

Rather than accompany each new pull request with the license
statement, or if you don't want to license your contribution under a
general permissive license, you can agree to my [Contributor License
Agreement](cla.md]).

1. Read the [Agreement](cla.md).

2. Clone this repository and make a copy of the raw markdown text of the
   agreement in the cla.md file or download the raw text through the
   GitHub interface.

3. Complete your copy by filling out the fields at the end of the
   document.

4. Send your completed copy to rhvoice@rhvoice.org. It will not be
   made public anywhere, but just kept by me.

5. Confirm that you have signed the C.L.A. in a comment to your pull
   request or in
   [#556](https://github.com/RHVoice/RHVoice/discussions/556), also
   stating the date of the signing in that comment. This step will
   allow me to be sure that the email has really come from you.
